alright let's talk about the iPhone se
so this phone came in last week and the
moment it did I switched out my sim from
my old iPhone se to this new one now
this small older iPhone se was one of my
favorite phones of all time I even won a
record last year saying that this was my
favorite phone from 2019 and I mean it's
an awesome phone but the phone that have
been using the most of recently has
actually been the oneplus 8 Pro I've
been using this for about a month at
this point and to go from this like
giant screen phone that is extremely
feature-rich like this has everything
it's big it's bright it's super fast to
go from this to this a relatively
feature poor phone it was a it's it's a
bit of a jump right so the way I'm gonna
do this video is and I talked about kind
of the deficiencies that the iPhone se
has kind of address them and talk about
whether or not I feel like they are
legitimate deficiencies and then we'll
get into some bigger picture stuff so
the three kind of big things I'd like to
talk about in terms of shortcomings of
the iPhone se are number one the screen
number two battery life and three of the
camera so the first one the screen this
is you you there's no way you can get
around this this is a dated screen it's
small it's low res and it's only 60
Hertz I mean this has got to be one of
the least impressive displays you can
get right now on a smartphone in 2020
and when you compare it to the 1 + 8 pro
this has got to be one of the most
impressive displays you can get on a
phone in 2020 and when I pull this thing
out of the box I was like okay is this
what we're doing we're going back to
like the forehead and chin again like
when you put them side-by-side the
difference is massive but when I use
this phone over the weekend just as a
regular phone and wasn't trying to
nitpick and draw comparisons between
this and other phones I'm perfectly
happy with this screen I really am it's
small but it's a good screen nonetheless
the other thing I want to talk about is
the battery life so the battery on the
iPhone se is a relatively small one it's
1800 milliamp hours and if you're doing
regular stuff like emails and browsing
the web and Netflix and social media
stuff it's fine it'll comfortably last
you the day maybe day and a half it's
shorter than the 11 and 11 pro but for
the size of the phone it's normal the
stuff that
the battery though is games and at first
I couldn't figure it out I was thinking
is it a certain type of game I'm playing
is it this particular title it may be
this Diablo clone is just really poorly
optimized but it was with everything and
I was going through battery life super
fast like we're talking like 1% of
battery life every minute and a half of
gameplay and I think it's because of the
processor like if you think about the
design of this phone when they put
everything together they put the 1800
milliamp power battery in here with that
low res screen it actually can hit those
claims numbers because those are not
intensive tasks but the moment you push
this CPU hard and it can go hard because
it's a very capable a13 chip this thing
drains battery life like you wouldn't
believe
and it's not just games like anything
that uses the processor for an extended
period of time like if you're shooting
photos or videos and you're just in the
camera app and just snapping away it'll
drain super fast as well so depending
what you do it will affect your battery
life very heavily on this particular
phone so if you're just like doing
regular stuff easy day day and a half
but if you're pushing it hard you'll
kill it fast okay a quick note about the
camera system if you're shooting
well-lit scenes I think you're gonna get
great image quality most people will be
very happy with the daylight photos that
come out of this camera there's probably
some people out there I'm a good number
of people out there that would have
loved a telephoto or an ultra wide but
you don't get that but I think everybody
would have preferred a better night mode
so they didn't include like an official
night mode on this camera I'm convinced
that there's like the processing
capability maybe not to get the exact
same image quality as like an 11 or 11
pro but better than this I would have
thought like it's clearly its weak point
the low-light photography on the iPhone
se isn't great and it compared to like a
pixel 3a that thing is way better for
low-light photos so depending on again
the type of photography you take you
should be happy with the iPhone se
camera the thing is though like even if
you're not a professional photographer
you're gonna invariably take a photo at
night right stuff happens in the evening
and I think they could have done better
than this those are the main
deficiencies of the iPhone se like the
camera the battery life and the screen
and depending on what you want out of
your phone now you know at least from my
perspective
those deficiencies manifest themselves
in real use so I think for a lot of
people they look at this phone and it's
like the perfect fit right if you're
someone that you just want a very
functional phone that's super reliable
easy option right but then there's the
more discerning individual I think a lot
of you guys are that type of person
where it's like you you see the benefits
of it and you see the negatives of it
and it doesn't really it may not add up
to you right like how is this a $400
phone how is this phone that seemingly
has so many imperfections still so well
reviewed by so many people and there was
actually a tweet by Lou from unbox
therapy which I thought was fantastic he
had this picture of the samsung galaxy
s7 edge and he was like if they put in a
snapdragon 865 and they priced it at 399
call it a day what people actually buy
that phone with every actual interest in
a product like that and it's obviously
no right no one in their right mind
would want that product and yet this
thing is available this thing has
interest and this ins flying off shelves
but I think it's because Apple does it a
very particular way like this foam has
no competitor there is no Android
equivalent of a $400 phone that's quite
like this and everyone's like what about
Brand X brand Y the difference is that
with every other brand that's trying to
hit that 4 or $500 price point they are
trying to make these phones stick out
from the rest they're trying to make
these flagship killer phones for 4 or
500 bucks and they're putting in
superfluous features like 108 megapixel
cameras and crazy high refresh screens
and curved edges they're trying to make
those phones stick out as being special
the problem with that is that when you
do that your phone you lose out on the
basics this phone
nails the basics and it's $400 I think
it's gonna be a crazy popular phone this
year now this conversation seems to only
apply with North American pricing when
you look at South America and even some
euro pricing and India's pricing like
it's a completely different conversation
this is a more expensive phone than the
oneplus 8 in India but like I know
there's crazy tariffs over there but
that seems really expensive for
iPhone se now as for this particular
phone I was gonna replace my mom's
iPhone 7 with this this was supposed to
be a gift for her but in this process of
using the phone and trying to develop
some thoughts for it to share with you
guys I have I've grown to like this
thing I can't really explain it like
every logical part of my body's like
this is not a special phone Dave it's
just an iPhone se it's really not meant
for enthusiasts but I'm drawn to it I
got to be honest I really like it so I'm
gonna swap out my main SIM into this
thing and just use it for a bit just to
see what it's like okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it I'll see you
guys next time
[Music]